+++
title = "Citizens' Advice Kiosk Project"
date = "2015-03-15"
+++

This project, led by Citizens' Advice Waverley as part of the Lottery-funded Advice Services Transformation Programme, was intended to support people within the community by providing information and advice in a self-served manner. It has been observed that a proportion of the people attending GP surgeries do not do so principally due to mental or physical infirmity, but due to issues elsewhere in their life which may or may not have a medical effect or solution. Debt problems, marital concerns and other such non-medical problems are best addressed by advice, information, and referral to the correct legal bodies where necessary. The GPs in question are, naturally, unable to help beyond issuing antidepressants; this represents a cost to the NHS and to the community which could be greatly reduced by giving these 'patients' the information they need to address the underlying cause of their problems.

To that end a number of touchscreen kiosks, giving access to curated webpages of various public and third-sector bodies, were installed in the waiting rooms of charities and GPs surgeries across Surrey. I wrote and reviewed responses for a request for tender, via which the hardware for this was procured externally; rather than look externally for software, I wrote [the interface](https://github.com/Xymist/waverley-terminal-deployed) intended to run on them (essentially just a webpage presenting groups of curated links in obvious categories) myself.

Prior information was available from a similar project run by Citizens' Advice Guildford; the principal difference was that this earlier project had involved using human outreach workers in public places at specified times, rather than technology available at any time. This allowed them to collect some data which are unavailable with the less personal approach (each person interviewed as part of that project was given a questionnaire to complete after being provided with advice) but with only three hours of experimental time per week per site their longitudinal data were patchy.

Some time after the end of this project, it became clear that a new bid was being prepared which would benefit greatly from access to the information from these kiosks regarding usage rates, access times, popularity of categories of information and so on. Therefore I was contracted to produce further software for retrieving, organising and presenting these data as requested by the new bid.
