+++
title = "Citizens' Advice VoIP Conversion"
date = "2015-02-01"
+++

While I was working with Citizens Advice Waverley on their Advice Services Transformation Programme, it became clear that their use of telephony and internet was enormous compared to many business, including as it does negotiation and advice sessions over hours on the telephone. I requested the relevant invoices from the finance department, and set about investigating how much money they could 'save' by switching over to a Voice over IP system, whereby all communications of any kind would go over the internet. As a first pass estimate I came up with a figure of 30%, which was sufficient to convince others within CAW management to approve a more detailed appraisal of the options available.

As of that decision I was made responsible for investigating forms of VoIP, the cost efficiency of each given the size of Citizens Advice Waverley (20 paid staff, 160 volunteers), and the potential suppliers. I interviewed staff at all levels to gain a clear picture of the requirements, frustration points with the existing system, and a 'wish list' for the new system. I then wrote the specification, drafted the tender documents and acted as primary evaluator on the returned tenders. I oversaw the development and installation of the finished system, working closely with both the sales and technical team of the supplier, and created the requirements for the configuration. As part of this all offices were moved to fibre broadband, increasing the speed and stability of the connection to the countrywide databases upon which much of the organisation's work depends.

Once the system was in place, I acted as trainer for the management staff who needed to be able to alter the configuration, and for the volunteers. I conducted training and coaching both one-to-one and en masse in the use of the new handsets and the new features available in the system, ensuring all staff were capable of using the system to its fullest potential. Once this system was in, there were training issues surrounding adding new handsets and so on; to simplify the process of forcing new handsets to update their software (since the administrative staff were not happy with a command line based approach) I wrote [a script](https://github.com/Xymist/phone-update-script) to automate it.

Further to this, I have been pushing for the ability to use the system as a revenue stream for the organisation, by providing low-cost telephony to other charities and to businesses within the area using the new PBXs. Negotiations are currently ongoing, but there are several potential 'tenants' interested in the possibility.

The overall savings to the organisation were on the order of 20% of the previous annual communications costs for the first five years; at my urging a sinking fund was established to allow them to renew the maintenance contract at the end of that period.
